# 30 Apr 2018

@Eric F @Jody K @Thomas C @paul h @hannah a 

## Agenda:
- py3 transition: 
  - [#11142](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/11142) is this too aggressive?  makes for issues with PRs being able to be back ported to 2.2.3 - if we yank out all future imports etc how do we write PRs that can be ported to 2.2.x?
- Update: bbox issues: @jklymak:  
  - [#10682](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/10682) updated to have `inbbox=True/False` parameter.

## Notes:

PY3 transition.

- @Thomas C wants to stand by the backport criteria (critical bugs and regressions), other backports need a champion.  
- 2.2.2 doc branch should only get changes to the .rst file, won’t see changes .py because of how docs are built

UpdateL bbox issues

- `artist.inbbox` flag - property on artist: 
  - when tight_layout does calculation, ignores everything set to False
  - pro: explicit listing of elements in bbox
  - con: @Eric F unintended consequences like possible performance issues? 
    - does everything need to be explicitly white/blacklisted?
    - goal for constraint layout to maybe be default?
    - GUIs need to be resized and so on the fly layout
    - @paul h suggests doing some benchmarks to see if performance is an issue
  -  @Thomas C what else could we use this flag for? semantic content of “I want this artist included in the bbox” - tight layout, constrained layout
  - sticky edge - when you change autoscaling to non-tight, but some artists need tight like imshow:
    - draw circle on image, will recognize that image wants tight
    - if circle>image, adds pad
  - clip paths - draw a line from [-10, 10], set limits to [-5, 5] , only see data in -5, 5 range, if you turn off then will show [-10,10] line
    - clip on -  yes/no clip flag
    - clib path - arbitrary path to clip to
    - clib box -if path rectangle, has some optimized code to make box
    - if child not clipped, will include as part of axes bbox
    - could check if clip box==axes box
  - axes bounding box = union of all clip objects, and objects outside that box get added in 
- maintain get_tightbox signature by removing:
- get_tightbox should stay on artists and do intersection in print, thereby deprecating extra artist



    
  
