# Matplotlib Weekly Meeting 2022-10-06 to 2023-03-02

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/jd_7FjxNQ4y7XgNknvmvGQ/badge)](https://hackmd.io/jd_7FjxNQ4y7XgNknvmvGQ)



**A regular sync meeting for the project's maintainers, which is open to the community.** Everyone is welcome to attend and contribute to conversations.


## Oct 6 2022 -- 2 Mar 2023


###### tags: `dev call 2022`


Call co-ordinates:  Thursdays @ 21:00 Berlin time (20:00 UTC during winter, 19:00 UTC during summer) https://zoom.us/j/384435716?pwd=WFpxVWxoYXArTDFzN1lWaHNoOE8xZz09

Previous notes: [Meeting Agendas](https://hackmd.io/zljR-pZrQ0O5J_j4NZ-9yw)
Archive: [matplotlib/ProjectManagement](https://github.com/matplotlib/ProjectManagement)

#### [Needs discussion at some point](https://hackmd.io/uzWviu8zSUChq3XhI2FqPg)

#### [Medium sized projects](https://hackmd.io/GgtrcXTlTfuoyHO76_LMLg)

#### [RSE worklog](https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/HyVoUHlSo)
-----------------


# 2 March 2023

_attending_:

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] 3.7.1 release?
- [x] Stale label? 
- [x] 3.8 goals? 
- [x] pydata-sphinx-theme 0.13 issue
- [x] Matplotlib website has 2 references of 3.6 being stable (matplotlib.org announcements, https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html)

### Issues and PRs

- [x] [name=QuLogic] [#2123](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/2123), [#13648](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/13648), and [#19955](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19955) are semi-duplicates, but they've all got some long conversation on them, so I'm not sure which should be closed

## Notes

### RSE reports
- @tacaswell: PR review
- @ksunden: typing PR, close to merged/reviewed; PR review; scipy tutorial proposal
- @QuLogic: PR review, issue triage, 3.7.1 close, checked all dependencies in Fedora for issues with 3.7.0

### 3.7.1
- ready to go basically (main is pandas incompatibility)
- [results of Fedora dependency checks](https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/python-matplotlib/pull-request/37#comment-132230); appears to be no major issues to fix for 3.7.1
- tag tomorrow?  @QuLogic and @ksunden
- QHull license issue

### Stale bot

- only doing 5-10 per day
    - this is due to a limit we set, could turn up
    - the current rep-rate seems good
- be more cautious about adding "keep" label 
    - just interacting with it is enough to get 365 days of life
    - useful to let these things be re-circulated

### pydata-sphinx-theme 0.13

- in 0.13.0 pst changed how they handled the logos
- this broke how we updated the logos in mpl-sphinx-theme
- @jklymak has a PR in with pst to enable what we need
- mst will also have to change which will make specifying the logo simpler
- this will require changes to most of our packages
- hard-pin mpl-sphinx-theme and mpl-sphinx-theme
    - yes, we do want to do this

### axis limits offer autolimming
- [#2123](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/2123), [#13648](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/13648), and [#19955](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19955)
- don't have api for asking artist its limits on a given sub-range
    - how can we efficiently do that?
    - can do in pandas or xarray, but hard for arbitraty paths
- close just one of them? 
- need to go through the transform stacks?  
- could add an API for ylim given xlim to each Artist
    - should be done as part of bigger data pipeline redesign

### 3.8 longer term plans...
- Medium scale projects for RSEs one motivator
- @QuLogic: 
    - hiDPI later in stack to be more flexible between displays
    - contours overlap with alpha anti aliasing artifacts
        - Agg code exists to try and fix this
- @ksunden
    - typing work
    - unit support documentation?
- @tacaswell 
    - multiple versions of freetype image comparisons
        - test versus previous dev
        - on releases as separate wheel
    - TTC fonts
        - more than one font (C layer threading)
        - doable: just need to be able to unpack; need a syntax to get the correct font (tuple or string with suffix)
- other
    - Transform objects
        - track what co-ordinate systems they go between
        - move to C to gain speed? Numpy slow for small arrays
            - pybind11 might make this easier
        - open GL libraries for matrix math that may do this for us
        - weak references between parents and children make hard to move to C
    - legends overhaul?
        - handler on Artists to make artist for the legend.  Then decoupled from Artist.
        - add Artist API to have "get_legend" allows pushing updates. 
        - or sync properties...
            - composite Artists
    - overhaul rcParams:
        - dict subclass
        - custom object that has mapping API
        - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24585


----------------------------

# February 23, 2023
_attending_: ksunden, chahak13, hannah, ianhi, efiring, jklymak, tacaswell, QuLogic, scottshambaugh, greglucas, anntzer

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] PRs 329; draft:false 47
- [x] ipympl dicussion
- [x] 3.7.1 critical bugs?
- [ ] 3.8 goals? 

### Issues and PRs
- [ ] [name=jklymak] [name=anntzer] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/17497 - how new C++ can we use?
- [ ] [name=chahak13] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25259 - `markersize` in scatter
- [x] [name=efiring] https://github.com/matplotlib/ipympl/issues/497 - ipympl design questions
- [x] [name=scottshambaugh] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/23485 - 3D hover coordinates
- [x] [name=scottshambaugh] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25272 - 3D exact axis limits - deprecate or no?

## Notes

### RSE reports
- Caswell: SDG for 100h to do scraping arXiv
- Kyle: 3.7 wrap up; Release procedure docs.  Accepted for GSoC so organizing that.  Proposal for SciPy.
- QuLogic: catching up

### ipympl
 - Python is being taught in jlab more and more
 - "nbagg" is backend for "classic" backend that we ship and behaves very much like the other GUI toolkits
     - saves when you save
     - can close the windows
     - does not work in jlab (for very good security reasons)
 - ipympl is the replacement
     - but has had some missing features (e.g. not saving when you exit which is now fixed)
 - has some concerning design choices
     - floating / popup toolbar
     - no close button to "turn off"
 - still needs some work
     - do we have enough user feedback?
     - how to we get the usability issues addressed?
 - how is ipympl goverened?
     - adhoc
     - sometimes self-merge due to lack of people who can review
 - how do we teach jupyter users to use ipympl rather than inline?!
 - ipympl seems to break often
     - ipympl has been moving slow
     - ipywidgets, jupyterlab, and matplotlib all break ipympl upstream
 - if we want to make this the default backend on jlab we need more something
 - there are some automated tests (galatta) that do run
 - possible things to do:
    - ping mpl devs on PRs
    - do we need to find money for this?
- installation problems
    - split js / Python can be painful?
    - this is due to how ipywidgets installs work
- some issues are due to details of how ipywidgets works
    - e.g. blocking 
- how do we push upstream to fix things?
- Elliott has a PR to use playwright to test webagg
    - should be adaptable
- steps going forward
    - better governance
    - some part time paid support
    - bot to make issues when tests fail
    - mpl needs to stop breaking ipympl
        - need a ipympl UAT

### 3.7.1 critical bugs?
- units + pandas
    - reverted the fix and re-opened the original issue
- missing license file
    - not clear why this is a new problem
    - pragmatic solution is to add a `wget` step to the jobs to pull the license file pre-emptively
- aim for 3.7.1 end of next week

### markersize for scatter
- have a draft PR
    - touches path collections and 3D path collections
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25259
- tests pass locally, but fail on CI
- please take a look to make sure this is a good path before adding tests
- suggestion: write the whats new

### 3-D hover co-ordinates
- no way to snap to data
    - snap to nearest plane?
    - or remove?

### 3D Padding
- axis limits have padding even if set automatically
- break custom limits tests
- rcParam?
- make consistent w/ margins for 2D axes?

-------------------------
# February 16, 2023
_attending_:
## Agenda

### Old business


### New business
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] PRs 319; draft:false 40

### PRs and Issues
- [ ] [name=jklymak] [name=anntzer] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/17497 - how new C++ can we use?
- [x] [name=jklymak] Stale bot? https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25163
- [x] [name=jklymak] Reorg galleries [#25209](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25209)
    - galleries/gallery, galleries/tutorials, galleries/plot_types
    - See https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25218 for motivation (mixed rst and py = sphinx-gallery docs)
- [x] [name=jklymak] [Theta transforms in polar removal](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24834)
    - is this idiomatic? Seems bad to have a flag in all the examples?


## Notes

### RSE reports
- @ksunden; 3 .7 release!!! yay
- pandas issue: check for covnerter and units 
    - confuses their converter
    - strings w/o units resets the converter to Categorical
    - "UTC" default unit? versus `None`
- @tacaswell: also 3.7 release...
   
### PR s and Issues

####  C++ compiler? https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/17497
- C++ 17 should work. Why old C++?
- manylinux wheels container? and MS compiler?
- advantages? 17 versus 11?

#### Stale bot
- worth trying?

#### reorg galleries
- `galleries/examples`, `galleries/tutorials` etc instead of /examples, /tutorials
- website configuration stored in https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib.org
    - would have to add the re-write rules to give redirects from /gallarly -> /examples

#### colormap tuple
- `(color, alpha)` seems general agreement that its fine

#### State of ipympl?
- usability issues? 
- 



-----------------
# February 9, 2023
_attending_:
## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] PRs: 316, draft:false 36 
- [x] [name=hannah] [scipy tutorial: feb 22](https://www.scipy2023.scipy.org/present)
    - [Link to example submissions by scipy conf](https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy-conference/tree/master/data/tutorial_submissions) 
- [x] 3.7.0 final tomorrow?
- [x] [name=Melissa] Update: GSoD proposal
    - Deadline for orgs is March 24, we are working on it. Suggestions welcome! [link to proposal](https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/gsod2023)
- [x] SDG to extend the arxiv scraping work

### Issues and PRs
- [ ] [name=hannah] [#24691: (color, alpha) color spec](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24691#issuecomment-1419756150)
- [x] [name=jklymak] [Stale bot](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25163)
    - [will it even work](https://github.com/actions/stale/issues/792)?  Stagger start/stop dates over time? 
    - offline tools to do old issues/PRs first?
- [x] [name=jklymak] [pcolormesh deprecation dance, #25162](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/25162)
    - pcolormesh now stores internally as 2-D (versus flattening), but that breaks folks who were working around the flattening of retrned objects (data, facecolor etc)
- [x] [name=chahak13] ["size" argument in Collections](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/1101)
    - Disclaimer: Really old issue
    - Is this still relevant? There seemed to be agreement that something had to change but doesn't show any update then. There is still no support for a `markersize` or equivalent.

## Notes

### RSE reports
- @tacaswell main job very busy
- @ksdunden: PR review; 3.7 release; ruff config in; data prototype work getting started.
- @melissawm New contributor meeting (w @ksunden).  Meeting with Teresa and Camron Riddel;
    - GSOD: deadline to 24 Mar (open 15 Feb) 
    - comment on proposal....
    - <https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/gsod2023>

### Scipy23 tutorial:
- Feb deadline, July
    - Tutorials: July 10-11  |  Conference: July 12-14  |  Sprints: July 15-16
- Melissa, Kyle may go
- 2d tutorials, 3d conference, 2d sprints
- tutorials typically beginner side
    - 1/3 - 1/2 new attendees
    - recorded and on-line
    - maybe some focus on modern improvements
    - how to do things (compared to other paradigms?)
- Let's brainstorm here: https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/scipy2023tutorial/edit

### 3.7.0 tomorrow(??)
- hopefully!
- try to do w/o Elliott
- backport 88 character limit to 3.7
- make sure highlights get to @story645

### GSOD
- currate examples
- sphinx-tag extransion directive
- vocabulary of tags?
    - learning paths...

### scrape archive for watermark
- SDG to do more of this $5k 100 h labour, + credits
- script that we can update...
- categorize by field.
- broader impact beyond Matplotlib

### markerize argument in Collections
- ["size" argument in Collections](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/1101)
- `scatter(s=)`
- `markersize` or `size` has more semantic meaning, but still vectors
    - `s` Area based versus via diameter (line/plot uses diameter)
    - sometimes scaled by area of shape relative to circle (that in `Collections`).
    - `s` deprecation warnings is super disruptive
    
### Stale bot
- API limit
    - maybe new
    - wait an hour if you exceed limit
    - REST API limits
    - First time contributors need to get through new API
- Maybe explore offline

### pcolormesh getter
- need to add kwarg to getters...
    - old seaborn with new Matplotlib will be annoyed
    - flatten=True default, btu allow flatten=False
    - public properties?  


--------------
# February 2 2023

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business

- [x] RSE reports
- [x] PRs 325, draft:false 52, (40-odd actionable)
    - [name=@rcomer] mark inactive PRs and issues automatically?  
- [x] [name=Melissa] New contributor meeting next week (Feb 7)
    - Could we have a (tiny) live PR?

### Issues and PRs
- [x] [name=@anntzer] ECDF @tacaswell [#24728](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24728)
- [ ] [name=@greglucas] Collections vs Containers and inheritance vs composition [#25027](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25027), [#25128](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/25128), [#24388](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24388)
- [ ] [name=@hannah] [color validation](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25025#issuecomment-1410845470)

## Notes

### RSE reports
 - Caswell: 3.7 work, starting to troll issue
 - Sunden: 
     - 3.7 work
     - tooling investigation
     - will pivot back to data-protoype next week
 - Melissa
     - GSOD project: if you have more feedback please add to hackmd, still have 10 days before it is due
    - https://hackmd.io/xRmN9nAPQUqU_-pm9dNekQ


### tooling
 - ruff
     - young, but used by other big (numpy, scipy, pandas) projects
     - linter written in rust (!)
     - very (very) fast, will include auto fixing + linting eventually
     - may looking to CI, but may not be worth the effort (linting is our fastest CI check)
     - may add a config so devs can use it


### New Contrib meeting
- anyone come to do live PR?
    - maybe regularly?

### automatic stale / close PRs

- what do we want to automate about PRs
    - reminders / ping
    - add orphan tag?
- frequently we are the ~~problem~~ bottle neck on the review
- closing PRs might be too agressive
- we will try a bot
    - Melissa will "copy" responses and come up with a draft bot.
    - A few points the bot could take care of:
        - Move inactive PR to draft
        - Attach a "needs attention" label
        - Mark PR as "orphan" if author is unresponsive
        - Investigate a "needs consensus" label
        - Stretch goal: pick 5 stalled issues for discussion for next meeting

### Issues 
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25129 (3.7.0 blocker)
    - generalized concerns that the only way to extend `Cursor` is sub-class it.  Not how we would do it today, but grandfather it in and leave it alone.  Maybe re-consider later, but do not want to hold 3.7 over.
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25126 (3.7.0 blocker)
- #24728 ECDF:
    - deal w/ NaN / masked by erroring, expecitng user to strip or fill as they need (slightly different stats in eitehr case)
- Collections vs Containers


-----------------
# January 26, 2023

## Agenda

### Old business

- [x] GSoD?  Any mentors?
    - Working with Sphinx Gallery on rst/*.py integration: https://github.com/sphinx-gallery/sphinx-gallery/pull/1071
    - [Template/draft proposal](https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/gsod2023) - feel free to add comments or edit


### New business
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] First time contributor project
    - while adding perhaps add labels, and consider moving stalled things to draft.


### Issues and PRs

- [ ] [name=jklymak] Replite console? https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22634
- [x] [name=jklymak] spectral functions (again) https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22828


## Notes

### RSE reports
- RSE: 3.7 largely
- Kyle: line length change in
- suggested list of projects into numfocus
- Melissa: 
    - existing PRs where help? 
        - add labels and move to draft if applicable (and comment so author knows)
    - GSOD...

### Google Summer of Docs
- 15 Feb
- @melissawm 
- Proposal to google: short.  https://hackmd.io/xRmN9nAPQUqU_-pm9dNekQ
- labels to example gallery? @melissawm  would be interested in (co-)mentoring 
- Feel free to edit or add comments.
- Other ideas for projects?  Need mentors to be responsible that milestones are met...
- Reporting: 
    - monthly short form
    - write case study at end
    - Example of final output: [NumPy Case Study from 2021](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/wiki/Google-Season-of-Docs-2021:-NumPy-Case-Study)
- timeline flexible between May-Nov

### Sphinx gallery PR

- https://github.com/sphinx-gallery/sphinx-gallery/pull/1071

### mlab spectral...
- deprecate for 3.8
    - removal note should include exmplaination as to why our plots are wrong
    - direct to use scipy directly

### replite console
- interactive plots
- good for teaching tool
- 

-------------
# January 19, 2023
_attending_: @tacaswell @jklymak @oscargus @melissawm @story645 @ksunden @IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w @QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ @QuLogic 

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
 
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] [name=oscargus] How to interpret min version (for NumPy)? https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24992
   - MPL: All minor versions of numpy released in the 24 months prior to the project, and at minimum the last three minor versions.
   - NumPy: All minor versions of NumPy released in the prior 24 months from the anticipated release date with a minimum of 3 minor versions of NumPy
   - "All minor versions" referring to first or last release of a minor verion? 
   - In particular 1.21.0 was released June 22 2021, but 1.21.6 was released April 12, 2022 (1.22.0 Dec. 31 2021)
   - NumPy drops based on first release. https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html
- [x] [name=Melissa] [GSoD](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline) -  Organization applications are due February 15, 2023 at 18:00 UTC
    - [Example of project ideas to submit (from NumPy 2021)](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/wiki/Google-Season-of-Docs-2021-Project-Ideas)
    - [Case study (output of the project)](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/wiki/Google-Season-of-Docs-2021:-NumPy-Case-Study)

### Issues and PRs
- [x] [name=timhoffm, jklymak] [Restrict all import in pyplot](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/12743)
- [x] [name=tacaswell] [Sphinx-gallery section separator](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/25021)
- [ ] [name=jklymak] [Mechanism for combining narrative docs and tutorials](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24746#issuecomment-1396303356)
    - No need to discuss actual content, but a plan for how to fix the tutorial/users-docs dichotomy would be nice.

## Notes
-----------------

### RSE reports
- Monthly new contrib meeting. Next one 7 Feb
- @ksunden CF time bug.  NEP changes down ine.  Still not there in terms of usefulness
    - hard to check isinstances with inheritence
    - Numfocus GSOC sign up
        - Projects list being developped: mathetex issues, hatching improvements (register patterns), bivariant colormap, speech bubble types? 
        - Let Kyle know of possible projects
        - Discussion of how to communicate with mentee and co-ordinate project.
- @QuLogic 
    - 3.7 release work
    - widget styling PR #24838
    - away for a few weeks.
    - web related configs/issues should be able to be handled by Tom/Kyle
- @tacaswell 
    - review + 3.7 work

### NumPy version changes
- 24 months first release of numoy version not last release
- our next release June/July: if near a drop date to hold support a little longer...  Be conservative as possible within needing features..

### Google Seasons of Docs
- announced.  Org applications 15 Feb
- find a person to work with? Grant system...
- our experience was somewhat inefficient
- Numpy: tutorials with tech writer.  Both very familiar with numpy.  Second time got someone who ended up as document lead.
    - organization
    - fresh eyes
    - cataloguing and architecting docs
    - remove duplication metadata cross linking
    - need to be careful with scoping
 
 ### cell delineation for tutorials
 
-  `# %% ` instead of `############...`
-  No objections

### import restriction on *
- `from matplotlib pyplot import *` restricting
- at least needs an API note so people can adjust
- numpy allows submodules
- maybe _should_ import somethings and make available in `mattplotlib.figure` for instance?
- Lazy importing? Scipy has something like that.  
    - https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0001/
- `pyplot.cm.` will still work...
- 

----------

# January 12, 2023
_attending_: @tacaswell, @rcomer, @QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ (efiring) @oscargus, @jklymak, @greglucas, @ksunden, @story645, @QuLogic

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
 
- [ ] RSE reports
- [x] 3.6.3 out?
- [x] 3.7 progress
- [x] [name=oscargus] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24825 in 3.7 or 3.8 (and in general, when should we stop backporting?)
   - Long standing issue that would be nice to get in (I guess)
- [x] [name=hannah] [documenting addfont](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24866) 
- [x] [name=jklymak] [Quick doc build](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24907)
- [x] [name=jklymak] [cftime issue](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24951)
    - how to handle users trying to use Formatters for other converter types (eg trying to use Matplotlib Datetime converters on cftime-converted floats).
- [x] [name=greglucas] [pcolormesh extra keywords and mapping](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24854)
    - Should a 'k' linestyle with masked elements in an array only apply to the unmasked cells?


## Notes

### RSE reports
- @tacaswell 3.7 wrap up
- @ksunden 3.7 as well
    - sphinx issues
    - mypy issues still
- @QuLogic 
    - 3.6.3 tagged and released
    - working on 3.7 
- 3.7 Deprecation:
    - needs review
- Widget PR:
    - downstream libraries need this.
    - styling checks and radio. Still needs cleanup
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24838
- 3.6.3 tagged and released
    - 3.6.x closed. No more backporting there please

### PRs and Issues

- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24825 in 3.7 or 3.8 (and in general, when should we stop backporting?)
    - merge
    - maybe needs a slight bit of test modification
- Documenting [addfont]((https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24866))
    - are users to use it or not?
    - needs to be at a higher level than just addfont docstring.
    - docstring should have a caveat in it.
    - Should be fully documented at top of font_manager module. 
- speed up docs builds
    - [Quick doc build](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24907)
- cftime
    - [cftime issue](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24951)
    - cftime is a tool xarray uses that allows for interesting calendars
    - user was using cftime converters (happens automatically)
    - were manually setting to use our locators / formatters which breaks because data -> float -> string which is giving wrong values
    - we have no way to tell at draw time that there is an incosistency
        - can we find a way?
        - we do know what converter is being used, but have historically not done any validation / checking
        - we have a couple of hooks where converters and formatters could check that they are consintent with each other
    - keeping track of origin + offset of dates
    - could we standardize on _always_ using datetime64?
    - [link to cf conventions](https://cfconventions.org/Data/cf-conventions/cf-conventions-1.7/build/ch04s04.html)
    - our conveter / formatter machinery is too implicit
        - not always clear to users what is going on
    - Actions (for @ksunden )
        - ivestigate a lightweight method of warning about incompatible converters / formatters (short term)
        - medium term think about how this will be used in new unit work
        - medium term think about how we can use numpy's dtype + unit machinery to simplify
-  [pcolormesh extra keywords and mapping](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24854)
    -  masks on edgecolors
    -  edgecolors not the main point; mesh shows domain, 
    -  3.3 and before used to work...
    -  could make a mesh-drawing method...
        -  helper around line collections.
        -  or poly collections
            -  thats `pcolor`
    -  been broken for quite a while and current behaviour makes sense.


-----------------


# January 5, 2023
_attending_: @story645 @QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ @rcomer @ksunden @tacaswell 

## Agenda

### Old business

### New business
 
- [x] RSE reports
- [x] report on circlci security breach
- [ ] 3.7 final decisions
    - branch today?
    - fonts on windows?  Either revert or fix https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24655
    - bump numpy (should have done this a while ago): https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24887/files
    - styling of radio / check buttons https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24838
    - legend outside of axes https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19743
    - (https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24047 which reverted https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22360 and https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22361).  Caswell's understanding is that the regression is gone, 24011 was an attempt to fix that regression in a constructive way but seems to also have othre problem.  Can we remove the critical tag and re-milestone to 3.8?
- [ ] increase style line length to 115 (only if we have time)

## Notes

### CI Keys: 
- There was a security issue (not specified) at circle, they said to rotate keys
    - we have read-only deploy keys for public repos
    - have write-capable deploy keys for devdocs (from main repo) and mpl-sphinx-theme
    - all re-generated

### RSE reports
- kyle: nearing end of typing adventure.  Has CI working with mypy, typed pyplot
- Tom: took time off, working on clearing 3.7 review queue
- Elliott: widget work, circleCI fallout


### 3.7 final work
- when should we branch?
    - target 1600 tomorrow 23-1-6

### [fonts on Windows](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24655)
- conflict between how windows and linux handle finding fonts.  Windows expects files in registry, whereas linux just uses font files
- Does `findfont` need a registered name or will it find them from the paths?
- were finding deleted fonts rather than use Windows API
- can always specify a file path for a font
- actions:
    - go with windows registry only @tacaswell 
    - xfail the test @tacaswell 
        - defer questions of how to test this to later
        - do we want to change the registry as part of the test?
        - opt in to running locally?
        - flag to only run an CI + windows?
    - need a manual test that this works @story645 
        - download a new font
        - use windows way to install it
        - remove mpl's font cache
        - verify the new font can be found
    - add behavior change note @tacaswell 

### Bump numpy to 1.20
- currently get warnings 

### [styling of radio / check buttons]( https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24838)
- scatter for buttons, and deprecated access to styling radio buttons, but downstream wants to style.
- discussion of list of dict vs dict of list

```
     label_props=[{'color': 'k'}, {'color': 'r'}, {'color': 'g'}],  # <- list of dicts
ï¿¼    frame_props={'edgecolor': ['k', 'r', 'g']},   # <- dict of lists
ï¿¼    check_props={'facecolor': ['k', 'r', 'g']},
```
- decisions
    - agree that consistent API of dict of list is esaier
    - agree to pass on broadcasting for now

### [legend outside of axes](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19743)
- needs second review

### [vertical space in latex](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24011) 
- Is this actually critical?  The issue it fixes was fixed by reverting two other PRs 

### Hatch with Pie
- needs second review

### https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24085/files

### sha in footer of docs

https://github.com/matplotlib/mpl-sphinx-theme/pull/54/files

- do we want to put the date in as well?
    - eh
actions:
 - get as screen shot @tacaswell 
 - Jody says "just do it" with expidited review

### increase accepted style length
- currently <80 (so 79)
- options:
    - 88 (<89)
    - 115
- concern:
    - make sure the side-by-side view of diffs still work (2 wide on github)
    - be able to get at least 2 (maybe 3) panels up in a text editor
- action:
    - open PR adjusting it to 88 @tacaswell 

-----------------


# December 29, 2022
_attending_: @ksunden, @IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w(greg),  @QuLogic,  @story645, @efiring,  @chahak13

## Agenda

### Old business
### New business
 
- [x] [name=hannah] 3.7 social highlights
- [x] [name=greglucas] [Release critical items](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/labels/Release%20critical)
- [x] [name=QuLogic] [Non-critical non-draft items](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+milestone%3Av3.7.0+-is%3Adraft+-label%3A%22Release+critical%22)

## Notes

### 3.7 social highlights
- please add anything you want highlighted to [3.7 released task](https://github.com/orgs/matplotlib/projects/2/views/3?filterQuery=status%3A%22to+do%22) or email to matplotlib-social@numfocus.org

### Colormap deprecations?
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/20853
- it appears that there are some pending deprecations left in the `matplotlib.cm`, and we probably need to convert to full deprecations
- @QuLogic can open that PR and we can confirm with @timhoffm then that that's what's needed

### Cygwin CI
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22999
- worried it might be too much burden as none of the core(?) developers use it
- perhaps move to a separate job that is run on a schedule or a specific label, like the cibuildwheel job
- also see if it can auto-trigger when the C++ files are changed?


-----------------

# December 22, 2022
_attending_: @tacaswell, @QuLogic, @ksunden, @efiring, @story645, @melissawm, @timhoffm  

## Agenda

### Old business

- [x] [name=tacaswell] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24730 
    - yae or nay
- [x] [n]

## notes
### 3.7 triage
 - yes on 24730, leave comment to @timhoffm 
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24655
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22634


# December 15, 2022
_attending_: @tacaswell, @jklymak, @greglucas, @melissawm, @efiring, @oscargus, @story645, @ksunden, @hukaidong, @QuLogic, @chahak13, @ianthomas23


## Agenda

### Old buisness

### New business
- [x] RSE report @QuLogic and @ksunden
- [x] CEL report from @noatamir or @melissawm 
- [x] 3.8 triage!

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=tacaswell] [Inheritance diagrams](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22273)
- [x] [name=jklymak] [Legend labels w/ underscores](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24713)
- [ ] [name=greglucas] [2D Collections?](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24638)
- [x] [name=jklymak] [Arrow and Vector](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/22390)
    - @jklymak is holding up over wanting to allow multiple arrows.
- [ ] [name=timhoffm] [`check_in_list` + `if` chain best practices](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24486#discussion_r1047265094)
- [ ] [name=timhoffm] (or [name=oscargus]) [Supporting 0/1 as booleans?](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24666#discussion_r1044620858)
- [x] [name=anntzer] (added by [name=oscargus]) [New plot method: ecdf](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24728)
- [x] [name=tacaswell] [more careful tracking on removed artists](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24626) (fast y/n on targetting 3.7)
- [ ] [name=jklymak] [rcParam set/get](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24730)
- [x] [name=hannah] [user guide reorg](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24493)

## Notes

### RSE reports:
- @ksunden: mypy support, adding type support. 
    - doesn't change API
    - no runtime impact
    - went way faster than we expected
    - typing is currently more restrictive than reality
- @melissawm 
    - conversations about onboarding
    - architecture docs
    - forward people to repo who have questions...
- @QuLogic 
    - working on CI issues
    - Cirrus CI...
    - HiDPI refactor...
- @tacaswell 
    - 3.7/3.8 triage

### 3.7 feature freeze
- end of year (really 23 Dec or so)
- _definitely_ please flag, or move your own PR remilestone

### [Inheritance diagrams](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22273)
- not working?  png fuzzy; image maps wrong; new png very big. Image map uses original size image - doesn't adjust to dpi.
- new theme thinner
- solution: adds scrollbars, so imagemap works..


### Pyproj.toml migration #23829
- will this be a 3.7 release issue? 
- nightly wheels should be working?
    - check that they are being published
- PR to 3.8

### Legend with leading underscore in label
- deprecation cycle? 
- dropping, will not drop in future...
- users can filter their data to not get deprecation warning
- keyword argument?
- leave comments on https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24713
- think of some methods as "applications".  implies lots of options

### vector vs arrow
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22435
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/22390
 - no one on call (but Jody) felt passionately, so pushed discussion off

### User guide reorg
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24493
- https://matplotlib.org/stable/users/index
    - has high overlap w/ https://matplotlib.org/stable/index.html 
- complicated by the fact that users/index is what sphinx this is our root page
- for very unclear reasons this page is not getting the left sidebar
    - it is there but just hidden?

### ecdf
- doesn't require binning, cumulative
    - `ax.plot(sort(x), np.arange(len(x)) / len(x)-1)
    - steps: tricky api issue
- 3.8...
- we do not want to rush sorting out the API



-----------------

# December 8, 2022
_attending_: @tacaswell, @jklymak, @greglucas, @melissawm, @efiring, @oscargus, @rcomer, @story645, @timhoffm, @ksunden, [Kaidong Hu](@hukaidong), Steven Gough-Kelly, @anntzer, @QuLogic

## Agenda

### Old buisness

### New business
 - [x] [name=tacaswell] Schedule for 3.7
     - Proposal: feature freeze Jan 1, 2023 final release in Feb 2023
     - (3.6.3?)
- [x] RSE report @QuLogic and @ksunden
- [x] [name=oscargus] style file for image comparison tests?
     - My previous guess was that 'mpl20' should be used for new image tests, but it is not documented. (Benefit: smaller images if nothing else.) If the 
     - Maybe one should add a bit of documentation about preferred settings? Only use PNG (unless...)? remove_text=True?

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=jklymak] [outside legend support](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19743)  
    - Stalled on specifying location, but often wanted.
- [x] [name=hannah] [vectorized wedge props for pie](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24470)
    - who needs to sign off on new features? 
    - `wedgeprop: [dict, iterable(dicts)]` or `wedgeprop: dict, wedgeprops: iterable(dicts)`
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] [Inheritence diagrams](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22273)
- [ ] [name=greglucas] [2D Collections?](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24638)

## Notes

### Matplotlib 3.7
- feature freeze 1 Jan, 1 Feb for release target
- any open PRs are critical?
    - mosaic enhancement is critical? 

### RSE reports
- Kyle: mypy and Matplotlib?
    - mypy is static type checking (GVR's main focus recently)
    - numpy has pretty good type hinting so down stream can start to think about how to add type hints
    - we do a number of things that violate typing theory
    - we have decided we will do it.
        - hard to say no at this point given community direction
    - how are we going to impliment this?
    - short term contract?
    - inline (for new work), or stub files `*.pyi` files.
    - cycler is an example
    - what versions of python
    - developer guide: what is development workflow?
    - Can't mix inline and stubs in a module.
        - new methods should have well-defined types for arguments.
    - stucture in way to make community contributions easy?
    - reach out to Baz (sp?) who did typing for numpy
- Elliott
    - PR review
    - following up on old PRs
    - getting circleci to post the docs warnings directly to the PR (inline like flake)
        - should also fix circleCI failure spam notifications

### Image test discussion
- which style to use
- Should maybe change all old tests to use "classic" and once done, change the default value?

### Outside Legend
- `loc` keyword only? "outside upper right", "outside right upper"  
-  https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19743#issuecomment-806258816 
-  should have "top", "bottom" as synonyms.
- need to do a surevy of all the ways we do 'loc'
- concerns about too many overlapping features
- have `bbox_to_anchor` and `'outside'` modifier conflict

### Wegde properties:
- [vectorized wedge props for pie](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24470)
- Q: sign off on new features? 
    - two reviewers
    - if unsure, ask for more
- which properties should we vectorize?
    - definitly hatches
    - colors (already exists)
- can currently do what ever you want by post-applying to return list of patches
    - criteria for adding new kwargs are things with "good reason" because there is always the escapehatch
- short proposal:
    - restrict to just hatch
    - bias to singular name
        - but already have colors and labels

### Subplot_mosaic
- parameter to specify list of kwargs....
- subplot_kw, and new kw are coupled
    - gridspec call also has kwargs, and figure kwargs
    - both are dicts so can't overload
- Actions:
 - go with per_
 - group docs / keywords


--------------

# December 1, 2022
_attending_: @jklymak @story645 @greglucas @oscargus @melissawm @efiring @ksunden @chahak13 @QuLogic Isabela Presedo-Floyd 

## Agenda
### Old business
- [x] [name=oscargus] yet another follow up about pycharm
- [x] [name=oscargus] any objections to installing cirrus ci? (to try it out if nothing else)

### New business
 - [x] [name=tacaswell] what do do with https://pypi.org/project/matplotlib-arm64/#history
     - We now control https://github.com/pypa/pypi-support/issues/2291#issuecomment-1330873859
     - Caswell's preference is to yank the release
- [x] Weekly RSE report @QuLogic @ksunden 
- [x] [name=melissa] [aria attribute](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/21328) - [Isabela Presedo-Floyd](https://github.com/isabela-pf) has gently offered to help us navigate this (Second half of meeting?)

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=QuLogic] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/23439 - fixed-width text format to help blitting?
- [ ] [name=hannah] [vectorized wedge props for pie](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24470)
    - who needs to sign off on new features? 
    - `wedgeprop: [dict, list(dicts)]` or `wedgeprop: dict, wedgeprops: list(dicts)`
- [x] [name=hannah] [reorganizing user guide landing page](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24493)
- [ ] [name=jklymak] [outside legend support](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19743)  
    - Stalled on specifying location, but often wanted.
- [x] [name=rcomer] [colorbar stealing from multiple axes](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24408)
    - support list vs sequence vs iterable
- [x] [name=efiring] [Can we close this?](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/22818)

## Notes

### aria
- issue: where to put the attribute, does it need to be tailored for specific use cases?
- user annotates or automatic: annotating figure or artist?
    - high level/fig level attribute 
    - individual attributes 
- recommend implementing the options and testing them out before settling on a solution too quickly. (Experience has shown that the best theoretical option isn't always the best practical option)
- alt text is high-level HTML, describing a figure. Aria is below that and could describe the elements and composition of the figure.
    - Could alt text be created from the aria attributes of the artists?
- It would be useful to have an example of the desired outcome. Does Tableau or other commercial software have an example of a figure and what the screen-reader outputs? We could leverage that for inspiration.

### Pycharm
- We have 5 licenses

### Cirrus CI
- GHA slow on ARM, so faster would be nice
- Someone with access to the matplotlib GitHub account should click https://github.com/marketplace/cirrus-ci and install the Cirrus CI application.


### PyPi version 
- matplotlib-arm64: maybe we don't have a wheel for this?
- we only support 3.7, but this user needed 3.6
- could make our own duplicate?
- name ambiguous
- conclusion: yank, and provide if we get an outcry...

### Elliott: 
- CI work
- Widget work

### fixed-width text format to help blitting?
- blitting on all widgets
- sliders don't have a fixed bounding box.
- text on the side is outside, so not fixed formatter so size of that can grow and shrink...
- user set format so its fixed?
- blit to end of figure


### rounded colorbar
- needs much work to be usable and unclear use case
- consensus: tell them to make a 3rd party library

### colorbar stealing from multiple axes
- needs clear guidance on what to put in 
- Tom suggested type dispatching, ndarray->flattened list, Kyle generalize to sequence
- iterable->list, not iterable->[iterable]
- handle axd.values() from subplot_mosaic 
- greg: good to go as is, follow up PR that does the full generalization
- Decision: Leave a comment that Tom has a good suggestion, let us know if you want to implement it or we can look at it later to make that update.

----------------
# November 24, 2022
_attending_: @oscargus @story645 @rcomer @QuLogic 

## Agenda
### Old business
- [x] [name=oscargus] follow up about pycharm

### New business
- [ ] [name=oscargus] Cirrus CI? https://cirrus-ci.org/features/ ARM Linux, Mac OSX M1, (FreeBSD)

### PRs and issues
- [ ] [name=jklymak] Reverse stackplot draw order:
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19591
- [ ] [name=jklymak] Pause raises window by default: 
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/22939
    - Complaint from a UI point of view is somewhat valid.  Can we run the draws without raising, and how can we offer that to the user (if we don't already?)

## Notes
 
### Welcome
- Ruth Comer accepted the invite to be a developer 

### PyCharm
- PyCharm: free for numfocus projects but not for projects with paid developers (not clear if it also holds for numfocus projects)
- Oscar waiting for confirmation from PyCharm, may follow up with numfocus

### stackplot 
- consensus on PR seems to be leaning towards fix in legend

### pause
- problem: raise_window is always true
    - plt.plot() calls show by default
    - plt.pause w/ animation pushes window back up on every loop [example](https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/gallery/animation/animation_demo.html)
- inconsistency: 
    - between backends - on somebackends it does the raising on others it doesn't
    - between window managers - some try to prioritize 
- request is to turn off by default
    - rcparam is also applied to`plt.show()``
    - can't split b.c. would spin off new related rcParam
- maybe related: https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/20415

- _plan_?: 
    - first make it consistent, then decide what to do, 
    - clarify that rc_param can only consistently not attempt to focus (can not call the raise_window)

### cirrus ci
- scipy uses it, has FreeBSD, m1, arm 
- might be useful for arm builds if fast
- maybe use it as a turn on special like the ci-build-wheels


# November 17, 2022
_attending_: [@efiring](@QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ) [@story645](@story645) [@ksunden](@ksunden) [@QuLogic](@QuLogic) [@chahak13](@chahak13) [@anntzer](@pXw4hSgTQF2--OciPYwa1w) [@greglucas](@IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w), [@noatamir](@noatamir) @dopplershift, @melissawm 

## Agenda
### Old business
- [ ] [name=oscar] follow up about pycharm

### New business
- [x] [name=hannah] mastadon: scientific python project server 
- [x] [name=hannah] [Google Summer of Code](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2022/11/get-ready-for-google-summer-of-code-2023.html)
    - 10-22 weeks, medium at ~175 hours or large at ~350 hour
    - students and to beginners in open source software development
- [x] [name=hannah] [Pydata global sign-ups](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s-T-BsWOLDbDvewCFieFR0M_8a0m6PiuJvTBz3fhopk/edit?usp=sharing) 

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=hannah] [aria attribute](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/21328)
- [x] [name=greglucas] [hpacker alignment (bug?)](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24386)

## Notes
### GSOC
- nominally interested, likely mentors are Kyle and Elliott
- hard dates are not announced yet by google

### pydata global
- please sign up in google doc if you want to help mentor by end of today


### aria roles
(long discussion not captured)

Take aways:
 - Get Isabela on the call to talk about how this should be used and at what level it makes sense to inject this into our code base now
 - We should investigate if our `.. plot` directive already supports `:alt:` and if does not, fix it so it does


### hpacker

- treat as a bug or go through deprecation cycle?
- be pragmatic and go for least pain--- just fix
- once we fix as bug, can not go back
- even if we think is a "bug fix" do it in a minor release as it is a big change.

# November 10, 2022

_attending_: [@efiring](@QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ) [@story645](@story645) [@ksunden](@ksunden) [@QuLogic](@QuLogic) [@chahak13](@chahak13) [@anntzer](@pXw4hSgTQF2--OciPYwa1w) [@greglucas](@IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w)

## Agenda

### Old business
- [ ] [name=oscar] follow up about pycharm

### New business
- [ ] [name=hannah] PyData NYC sprints
    - open prs ðŸ¥³
        - [#24409: fix scatter example](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24409)
        - [#24403: print repr for color string error](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24403) 
    - preferred method of communicating that someone is working on an issue for sprints?
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] SRE report
- [ ] [name=hannah] [CZI round 5](https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/)
    - [ ] https://blog.scientific-python.org/scientific-python/2022-czi-grant/

### PRs and issues
- [ ] [name=hannah] [hpacker alignment](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24386)
- [ ] [name=hannah] [streamplot return type](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24388)
- [ ] [name=greglucas] [CenteredNorm](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24132)

## Notes

### communications
Leave note on issue: "is mentored by @name, sprinter @name2 is working on it"

### SRE
- Kyle: CI + prototype, Elliott: web stuff + variable width fonts on mpl cairo?
    - Elliott will open PR on mplcairo

### cmap
center+half-range:
- current: center + half range are the [current parameters](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.colors.CenteredNorm.html#matplotlib.colors.CenteredNorm):
- vmin/vmax are accessibly from parent class inheritance
    - proposal: adjust half-range when `set_vmin/set_vmax` are called 
half range:
- current: halfrange = vmin-vcenter, updating vcenter updates half
- proposal: shift half-range to using vmin-vcenter

### container object
- check that remove works = update: doesn't, not implemented for collections
- possibly just have `StreamplotSet` inherit from `Container` directly instead of a new class?
    - backcompat init, ..versionchanged, remove note
- investigate using container objects for the other none collection multi artist returns

### Meson for builds?

- soon `distutils` will be removed, and we should try to get off it
- `distutils` is mostly unused by us, but the biggest use might be indirectly through `numpy.distutils`, which is in maintenance-only mode
- Moving to `pybind11` may also limit the need for `numpy.distutils`
- [@greglucas](@IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w) and [@QuLogic](@QuLogic) have some experience with Meson
- It seems fairly straightforward to implement compiled extensions
- The Python integration is not 100% perfect yet, but there seems to be a lot of momentum
- [@QuLogic](@QuLogic) has a test branch for _only_ the compiled extensions https://github.com/QuLogic/matplotlib/tree/meson

# November 3, 2022

_attending_: @tacaswell @oscargus @QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ @story645 @timhoffm @kanderso-nrel (Kevin Anderson) @ksunden @jklymak  @QuLogic Chahak Mehta (@chahak13)

## Agenda

### Old Business

- [ ] [name=tacaswell] foresite tool? https://www.runforesight.com they have been sending me emails.  Might be useful metrics?
- [x] [name=hannah] [PyData NYC](https://pydata.org/nyc2022/) Nov 8-11 
    - [name=Melissa] Sprint info https://hackmd.io/@melissawm/pydatanyc2022 (feel free to edit the Matplotlib section if you want to add anything)
- [x] [name=tacaswell] worklog: https://hackmd.io/@matplotlib/HyVoUHlSo

### New Business
- [x] [name=oscargus] Ask for PyCharm licenses? https://www.jetbrains.com/community/opensource/#support NumFocus projects are done deal https://www.jetbrains.com/community/opensource/#partner but someone will have to apply for a number of licenses for the project(?).
- [x] [name=hannah] belated 3.6/3.6.2 twitter release thread https://typefully.com/t/iBIdqnU 

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=tacaswell] move data-prototype to mpl org
    - https://github.com/tacaswell/data-prototype
- [x] [name=hannah] [animation tutorial](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24274), [3D plotting methods](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24307#issuecomment-1302217390)
- [x] [name=oscargus] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24263 Any idea why this kills lots of tests, but only on Linux?
- [x] [name=oscargus] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24262 OK to get less than ideal spacing for colorbar xlabel? Way to fix that?
- [x] [name=efiring] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24257 I think this was deferred from an earlier meeting.
- [x] [name=timhoffm] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24349 [Bug]: sharex and sharey don't accept 0 and 1 as bool values
I don't think we need to be permissive.

## Notes

### forsite
 - punt

### pydata NYC
- @melissawm and @tacaswell are giving keynotes
- @story645 is running sprints
    - if there is anything you want worked on please flag by for next Tuesday (11/08)
    - mark as "good first issue"
        - please continue to include explaination of why it is a good first issue


### funded work log
- added to top of weekly notes
- have a standing 5 minute update slot for paid folks to report
- https://github.com/matplotlib/data-prototype/pull/14
- https://github.com/matplotlib/data-prototype/pull/13

### license for pycharm
- @oscargus will ask for them on our behalf
    - [Numfocus Developer Advocate Arliss Collins](https://numfocus.org/community/people): arliss@numfocus.org

### 3.6.2 PR planning on twitter
- https://typefully.com/t/iBIdqnU
- please respond by 10AM NY time on Friday
- tweet all at once or slowly?
    - as a single thread but then retweet parts for next week


### rules for data-prototype
- willing to accept PRs
- 1-review merge
- expect to move fast and suffer frequent API breaking re-writes

### animation tutorial
- keep an eye on both of these PRs

### pgf tests breaking unrelated PDF tests ?!

- proposed theory that something in the pdfs generated is poisioning the long-running ghost script

### removing invisible tick breaks colorbar xlabel
- trying to special case this is probably too much complexity and not general enough, accept breaking the test

### let mpl.style.use('module.style') work

- any reason not to merge this?
- slight concern
    - it is a bit of magic how we turn string into a style
    - if there is a '.' in the name we treat it as a package
    - if no '.' we fallback to old behavior
    - should we provide a way to a default name style name
        - `mpl.style.use('seaborn.dflt')` is a bit more verbose than `mpl.style.use('seaborn')`
        - no for now, but can add iths
    - we are going to break a small number of existing styles that happen to have dots that happen to shadow a package
- these are not available in our list of available
    - could solve with entry points later
    - we also take urls which we do not list
- proposal:
    - be explict "pgk://" or similar on the front to opt into the package look up (we do `'module://'` for backends)
    - trade off is brevity vs precisness

### sharex / sharey
- do not take 0/1 in place of True/False
- error message does not list True/False as valid!
- should we special case ints?
    - yes: it is a reasonable user expecation
    - no: too much special casing
- True/False _are_ ints
- make keywords in Python 3, unassigable is Python 2
- we only have 11 instances where we check for exact Boolean type
    - we should look into those
- decision:
    - we should support 0/1, but we do not like the proposed patch
    - we should probably check for string first, then fall thorugh to normal
    - this particular case may be complicated by a user friendly warning about "you probably not mean to pass an int here?" 
        - but we might be able to remove this due to sharex being kwarg only




------
# October 27, 2022

_attending_: @tacaswell @efiring @melissawm @story645 @anntzer @ksunden @QuLogic @jklymak @timhoffm 

## Agenda

### Old Business

- [ ] [name=tacaswell] foresite tool? https://www.runforesight.com they have been sending me emails.  Might be useful metrics?

### New Business
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] AWS funding ask (time critical by CoB Friday 10/28)
    -  https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/AWS-funding-ask--Br3U8tAVE99U2ftVdSIRqcRYAQ-apLg1sl5n3sjagvPgqBq8
- [x] [name=tacaswell] Kyle started this week
- [x] [name=tacaswell] tidelift Coordinated Disclosure Policy
    - https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406287910036-Security-process
    - worth 2.1k$ / mo to project do do this
    - either  eed to just use theirs (and push all of our security reports through thme) or roll our own (which is a bunch of work)
- [ ] [name=hannah] [PyData NYC](https://pydata.org/nyc2022/) Nov 8-11 

### PRs and issues
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] move data-prototype to mpl org
    - https://github.com/tacaswell/data-prototype
- [name=QuLogic] [Centered Norm](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24093) 
    - decide on which of two PR approaches should go in 3.6.2
- [name=jklymak] [Arrow deprecation](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/20387)
    - should we deprecate? 
- [name=jklymak] [Load style libraries from packages](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24257)
    - OK with us?
    - Other uses of this machanism?

## Notes

### Tidelift
- feed money back to maintainers (~2.1k/mo)
- maintainers agree to have reasonable release schedule
- security policy that is reasonable
    - will respond? 
    - release w/ bug fix, only reveal at that point
    - or launder through tidelift.
    - https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406287910036-Security-process
    - CVE process?
- numpy is using tidelift's security process and reporting channel

### Numfocus ask to Amazon for corporate donation
- Brian Granger
- easier to get more $ than a small number.
- https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/AWS-funding-ask--Br3U8tAVE99U2ftVdSIRqcRYAQ-apLg1sl5n3sjagvPgqBq8 
- people and AWS credits?
- very short timeline
- larger scale issues co-ordinating group work/ work for RSEs
    - @QuLogic @kyle @tacaswell will start summarizing work in Gitter...
    - Weekly report: 
        - some sort of "blog" for RSEs report before Thur meeting.
        - maybe announce gitter?
        - Kyle and Elliott will choose exactly how to do this.




------
# October 20, 2022
_attending_: @efiring, @tacaswell, @story645 

## Agenda

### Old Business

- [ ] [name=tacaswell] foresite tool? https://www.runforesight.com they have been sending me emails.  Might be useful metrics?

### New Business
- [name=tacaswell] Kyle started this week
- [name=tacaswell] tidelift Coordinated Disclosure Policy
    - https://support.tidelift.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406287910036-Security-process
    - worth 2.1k$ / mo to project do do this
    - either need to just use theirs (and push all of our security reports through thme) or roll our own (which is a bunch of work)

### PRs and issues

- [name=QuLogic] [Centered Norm](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/24093) 
    - decide on which of two PR approaches should go in 3.6.2
- [name=hannah] [versioning directives](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/23506)
    - decide w/ or w/o summary, any styling 
- [name=jklymak] [Arrow deprecation](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/20387)
    - should we deprecate? 
- [name=jklymak] [Load style libraries from packages](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24257)
    - OK with us?
    - Other uses of this machanism?

## Notes
* ended meeting at 3:15 b/c of attendance

----------
# October 13, 2022

_attending_: @oscargus, @story645, @jklymak, @QuLogic, @ianthomas, @ksunden, @efiring, @melissawm 

## Agenda

### Old Business

### New Business
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] foresite tool? https://www.runforesight.com they have been sending me emails.  Might be useful metrics?
- [x] [name=Melissa] New contributor's meeting
    - There was a conversation about having an accessibility-focused gitter channel for folks to talk about it.
- [x] [name=tacaswell] Decide on if we want to start using "Added in ..." in docstrings
    - should decide before too much 3.7 work lands
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/23506
- [x] [name=hannah] Document how to milestone test only prs
- [x] [name=oscargus] Autolabelling of PRs with merge conflicts? For example https://github.com/eps1lon/actions-label-merge-conflict
- [x] [name=oscargus] (Possibly discussed millions times before) C/C++ linter/code style? For example https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24062/files is missing an empty last line. "Problem"?
   - Objective C?

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=oscargus] Import textpath from text or textpath?
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/23576 (discourage importing from textpath)
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/23565 (deprecate importing from text)
- [x] [name=oscargus] QT Figure options dialogue 
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24141#discussion_r994015429
    - Seems to just set converter and units to the same as before. Is that required or just a leftover from a feature never implemented?
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/blob/main/lib/matplotlib/backends/qt_editor/figureoptions.py is actually (GUI) backend-independent despite the location. Should one try to refactor this in some way so that other backends can also provide it?
- [x] [name=oscargus] Improve rubberband on wx and tk. Black and white lines so visible on both light and dark backgrounds.
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/23985
    - Important that the lines look similar (right now tk is a bit more dotted and wx a bit more dashed)?
    - Probably "easy" to do in the OSX backend as well, Greg? https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/23777 

## Notes

### Welcome Kyle
- NASA funded RSE
    - Data tracking through 
    - @ksunden

### New contributor meeting
- Accessibility related channel on gitter @story645 will add
- extra channel for coordination?
- https://gitter.im/matplotlib/accessibility

### Version added in...
- any new feature, on Whats New entry...
- deprecation wrapper to add Deprecated in...
- whats new should be currated...
    - need some visualizations
    - could add PR#s...
- Todo:
    - Policy PR on how to do it @story645 

### PRs with merge conflicts:
- GH Action to add a label to say there is a conflict
- put in ``.workflows`
- @oscar

### C++ linting
- perhaps hard to lint old code...
- OK to ask folks to "properly" format C code...
- do we have format guidelines?
- pre-commit is warning, so that is working..
- pep7
    - for python extensions
- @oscar to open Issue solicitling standard link...

### textpath from text or textpath?
- probably got moved at some point
- should be consistent internally

### QT Figure Options
- set_axis?  converter and units? 
- test with datetime?
- not fundamentally QT dependent?
    - possibly have other GUI toolkits
- pyllustrator...

### Rubberband
- black on black rubberband not good
- tk PR. black and white
    - need for OSX
    - currently looks slightly different:
        - [QT 3 pixels: code](https://github.com/QuLogic/matplotlib/blob/14c96b510ebeba40f573e512299b1976f35b620e/lib/matplotlib/backends/backend_qt.py#L474)  3 on 3 off dash
- swap which one is dashed on PR. 

### Milestoning tests
- need to document it.
- if there are documentation changes as well documenting the change helpful.
- 3.6-doc is built against released matplotlib
    - not `*.py`
- Default to backporting to current bugfix release:
    - ignore if it doesn't backport...
    - 

----------
# October 06, 2022

_attending_: Melissa (@melissawm), [@greglucas](@IGuKs80UTJCig4yt6Zos7w), @noatamir, [@ericfiring](@QWhXj01mSwmTjk5kN1H_qQ), @story645, @jklymak, @QuLogic, @timhoffm

## Agenda

### Old Business
- [x] [name=hannah] `needs-sorting` & `unassigned` milestones
    - not currently documented 
        - https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/coding_guide.html#milestones
    - Suggestions:
        - `unassigned` internal milestone for issues that have been closed
        - `needs-sorting` issues that have not been assigned to a particular version yet, but we would like to see implemented
    - are tests new features or bug fixes? not documented
- [x] [name=hannah] pydata global sprints 
    - virtual, any time between Dec 1-3 https://pydata.org/global2022/

### New Business
- [x] [name=tacaswell] Adopt + adapt Pandas "claim bot"
    - For unclear reasons (and contrary our documentation) people seem to expect that there is a way to "assign" issues.  It may be worth providing a path for this rather than spending the effort to tell everyone that we do not assign issues.
    - talked about this with @noatamir at CZI
    - e.g. pandas take-bot [doc](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/development/contributing.html#where-to-start), [action](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas/blob/main/.github/workflows/assign.yml)
- [x] [name=tacaswell] arxiv-matplotlib https://github.com/mrocklin/arxiv-matplotlib
    - https://github.com/tacaswell/arxiv-matplotlib/tree/doc_add_fancyplot <- readme with plot embedded
    - we are currently used by ~17% of all papers published to arXiv
    - hold off publicizing to let Matt Rocklin (who did the work) publicize first if he wants to
- [ ] [name=tacaswell] foresite tool? https://www.runforesight.com they have been sending me emails.  Might be useful metrics?
- [x] [name=hannah] hacktober? 
    - [none code contributions are included too](https://hacktoberfest.com/about/#low-or-non-code) 
        - would maybe need a tracking repo 
    - if yes, maybe w/ designated person assigned to these prs? 
- [x] [name=tacaswell] Kyle defends 10/10, will start with us later this month
- [ ] [name=Melissa] New contributor's meeting
    - There was a conversation about having an accessibility-focused gitter channel for folks to talk about it.

### PRs and issues
- [x] [name=jklymak] *Release Critical*: Don't raise on colorbar made from orphaned mappable
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24088
    - release note?  
- [x] [name=jklymak] rst versus md: 
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/24067
- [x] [name=timhoffm] `colormaps[None]`
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/23981


## Notes

### pydata global sprints
- any day of Dec 1-3
- @tacaswell can definitly do it (at least one block)
- @story645 will post to discourse looking for more voluneteers 

### Claim/AssignBot? 
- bot to assign them
- pandas has it
- industry, people are assigned
- what do do if people claim something and do not take it?
    - add "steal" option
    - pandas now has the problem where they are now telling people to "if it has been long enough" re-assign
    - this just pushes the problem down a layer and does not actually take burden off of maintainers 
- proposal:
  - a way to assign your self
  - in a few days get a ping that asks if you are still working on it?
  - if no PR or response after a week un-assign
- current process
    - no real assignment (other than people who feel obligated to fix bugs they put in)
    - first opened PR "wins", issues with priority while things are "in progress"
- did this actually make things better for pandas?
    - overall they are happy
    - seems to drive engagement, but pushes awkward down a level (hence the "un assign" proposal)

DECISION: @noatamir will implement giving this a try

### Milestones:
- `Needs sorting`: From 2.0 bankruptcy
- `Unassigned`: For closed issues/PRs? 
    - Others were using for other meanings: stalled which should be "Needs sorting".
    - "Needs sorting" 
    - "no milestone" means no one has looked at it?
- Propose: 
    - get rid of "Unassigned"
    - "Needs sorting"-> "Future release"
- Future should not be read as commitment?
    - putting in a versioned milestone it stronger
    - Should describe milestones on GitHub that sets guidance for both PR authors and maintainers.
- Proposing tightening up next release milestone
    - most (no draft) PRs should be for next milestone explicitly
    - For Issues - numbered milestones usually just bug releases
- Cartopy:
    - long-term, medium-term milestones, and numbered milestone is solid plan to get done
- Release Dates:
    - proper schedule
#### consensus
- numbered releases: tighter labeling + dates
- something for longer term usage 
- move open `unassigend` to `needs-sorting` + removed `unassigned`
- rename `needs-sorting` to `future releases`

### arxiv-matplotlib 
- "Matplotlib" embeded in figures
- 17% of all papers on ArXIV
- future work
    - extend this to hit the other pre-print servers (15hr)
     - classify the results by field and stash that in the parquet file (15hr)
        - maybe promote parquet file to be a database (sqlite is probably good enough)
     - write some scripts / dashboard to show the results (25hr)
     - write jobs to update once a month with new papers (15hr)
     - extend to find other plotting tools (10hr)
 - Pay someone to do this?
 - Published journals probably don't preserve info?
 - Social media after Matt publishes blog


### colorbar[None]
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/23981
- needs a function for downstream libraries to get default
    - Nice to get point release because we are deprecating `cm.get_cmap` in 3.6
    - On `colormap` object?
    - @tacaswell with proposed code...

### 24060
- fix floating point slop at least for the machine with the issue
- one arrow that was slightly offset

### Hacktoberfest
- won't participate this year.

### README.rst versus README.md?
- future is Markdown!
- three other repos as well...
- no matter what: twine test
    - README needs to be parsed on Pypi
    - add to `sdist` test @story645 
- yay Markdown for README
- but not the docs.






