# 23 Apr 2018

@efiring @jklymak, @story645, @dopplershift

## Agenda:
- bbox issues: @jklymak:
   `ax.get_tightbbox()`  now includes legends as of #9164 (and #10682 proposes making it that way for *all* artists).  But that is sometimes bad if the user has stuck the legend far from the axes (i.e. #11041).  @ImportanceOfBeingEearnest brought up the idea of having a flag attached to an artist that says whether it should be part of get_tightbbox, so users can turn it on/off on an as-needed basis.
  - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/9130, https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/9164, https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/10682, https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/11041
- inset_axes API:
  - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/11026
- event tracking data in google analytics w/docs
  - https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events
## Notes:

### bbox issues:

- previously: constraint/tight layout didn’t include legends
  - figure legends not in tight bbox?
  - included when fig bbox=tight
  - not included in axes bbox
  - used in tight and constraint layout
  - artist property set to true by default, could be set to false by default
- should all artists be part of tight box? do we need method of exclusion?
  - @Eric F flag is low barrier, but is there enough use case?
  - current: legend based on bbox_to_anchor argument against existing axes
  - proposed exclusion methods:
    - method on artist: legend.exclude for bbox
    - kwarg to `constraint_layout`?
  - alternatives for legends:
    - attach legend to its own axes and use that bbox
    - @use fig.legend + bbox transform
- @Jody K To Do: add exclusion flag
- @Eric F move automatic gathering of handles, labels into axes methods
  - do axes composition: axes.get_legend_entries in fig.axes
  - feed sum(handles, labels) into fig.legend()

### inset_axis

- child axes
  - @Eric F want to preserve hierarchy/ composition
  - @Jody K needed for tight_layout/constrained_layout
  - tension w/ preserving axesgrid api:
    - axesgrid is poorly documented
  - multiple apis for add_inset:
    - manual, specify the box for the inset axis
    - loc based but needs height+width
    - padding?
      - handled w/ uniform shrink (like colorbar)
      - pad in terms of physical units? @Jody K??
  - @Eric F : Start with simple api
    - specify rectangle and transform
    - @Jody K add_inset_rect + pad
      - specify pad in  physical units

### API inconsistencies

  - @Eric F: importance of being earnest mentions inconsistency between text (x, y, text) and annotate takes (text, (x,y))
    - keep track of inconsistencies?
    - shift to a more uniform standard?
    - how to tabulate?
      - new github repo for program management?  https://github.com/matplotlib/ProjectManagement
        - add issues for api inconsistencies

### 3.0 plan

- aim is for SciPy: release 3.0
- point of 3.0 is mostly to get devs using Python 3.0 only version
