# 28 Jan 2019
## Agenda
[x] follow up on summer studentsReviews
  [x]  https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/12678 (fix for timezone handling)
  [x] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13128 (Parameter renaming)
  [x] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13069 (default minor ticker change)
  [ ] verbose/logging method: https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13275 
## Notes

**Timezone handling**

-  https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/12678
- timezone information wasn’t being passed into YearLocator
- alternative is don’t support timezone/assume GMT
- without passing isdst, will raise exception if time being DST is ambiguous (no timezone passed in)
  - user can pass localtime instead of datetime 
  - `dateutil` might correctly handle this
  - this is in yearlocator

**Parameter renaming decorator**

- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13128
- just waiting on @Thomas C 
- decorator to make functions keyword only?
  - later deprecate positional and make them kwarg only
    - would require making pyplot wrappers aware of deprecators
- merged

**Minor tick changer**

- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13 069
- insist on backcompat api? 
- minor ticks not as commonly used, so should in theory have smaller ripple effects
- leave 1  and 10 at 5 ticks, because it yields a middle

**Verbose logging**

- requires multiple levels of hierarchies 
- need way to turn off mpl level logging w/o turning off other logging
  - can’t use global handler (basicconfig)
- handler needs to be publicly accessible
- this is designed for end (mostly novice) user, not library dev
  - needs to not cause ripple effects in downstream libraries/apps

**summer students**

- @hannah a spoke with geopandas, worried their project is not a full 3 months (but we suspect it is more complicated than they think)
- @Thomas C will send follow up email and include user list.

**Next release?**

- release bugfix 3.0.x soon and 3.1 in a month or so 
  - must already be in master to be considered for 3.1
- check in on https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13281
- @Thomas C will send email with announcement + asking for volunteers to help run release.
- get in https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13030 (ping @Benjamin R)

**Units**

- @Antony L - datetime should be pitched to floats & stay there instead of mixed units
- places where you’d like to pitch stuff to numpy but as array destroys units (for example unwraps pint)
- xref: [+☑️ Matplotlib 2019 meeting agenda: unit-conversion:](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Matplotlib-2019-meeting-agenda-unit-conversion-aAmENlkgepgsMeDZtlsYu#:uid=393380968722540654338756&amp;h2=unit-conversion:) 




# 21 Jan  2019
## Agenda
[x] updates for NF annual report
    > Happy new year! We are hard at work producing the 2018 NumFOCUS Annual Report. Last year we invited all of our sponsored projects to include the main highlights of their year, and we'd like to do so again this year.
    > 
    > To keep things manageable with over 2 dozen projects, please reply to me with 2 or 3 bullet points of your 2018 highlights.
    > 
    > For example:
    > Received ACM Best Project Of All Time Award
    > Celebrated our 1.0 release
    > Brought on two new core developers, Jane Doe and John Hancock
    > Kindly send me your highlights by the end of this week if at all possible.
    > 
    > Let me know if you have any questions.
[ ] gsoc or JDH student fellowship this summer?
  [ ] if gsoc, then what should we do with JDH fellowship this year?
[ ] documentation summit
## Notes

**Numfocus Annual Report** @Thomas C **wrote it**

- I officially became lead developer, 3 new core developers (Tim Hoffman, Ernest, Dietmar Schwertberger)
- 200 unique code contributors for year (average ~26 unique contributors per month)
- One major release (3.0), one minor release (2.2), 8 total patch releases
- note about plotting contest & summer fellowship

**GSOC & JDH**

- pros: more control + good use of fellowship money
- cons: running ourselves, everyone stretched super thin
- Are there projects?
  - keep working on matplotlib altair - 
    - cons: altair is kinda dead, any mpl developer interest? 
  - propose there own projects
  - infrastructure:
    - proper webpage/documentation deployment
      - sphinx 
      - fix doc version selection - version toggle
      - google pointing to outdated docs
      - which HTMLs are associated to each other, or clean versioning 
      - python has instructions somewhere for building versioning? 
      - needs mentor 
  - put out call to devel mailing list for mentors/projects
    - run it through gsoc if mentors are new
  - models of good projects:
    - astropy, sympy
    - clear projects, milestones, fairly self contained
  - outside matplotlib + mpl related
    - fix viz in geopandas @hannah a would mentor, need run by geopandas
    - cartopy - @Ryan M & Elliot have commit bits so stuff could go in
    - factor out pandas plotting into its own package - kinda becomes matplotlib toolkit 
      - @Thomas C maybe, @hannah a maybe
    - factor out xarray plotting into its own package/clean up their visualization 
      - @Thomas C maybe, @hannah a maybe
    - seems to be an interest in geospatial / mapping extensions
    - list of things basemap can do that cartopy:
      - besides labeling lines
      - migrating basemap to cartopy
        - convert basemap examples to cartopy 
        

**Depr****e****cated/closed MEPS**

- MEP 25 (closed #3424)
- MEP 26 

**Discussion about webpage**

- looking into ways to get redirect of main page like python.org  (https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html = https://docs.python.org/library/index.html)
- bandwidth cloudflare - 2 Tb/month (780k unique users)
- each version 250 Mb - doc repo about 10 Gb.

**documentation summit**

- @Ryan M can host
- $13k  budget + small grant ($3k from numfocus)
  - 2 days, 5 - 7 travelers?
    - Have to be there: @Ryan M @Eric F @Thomas C 
    - probably: @hannah a + Dora
    - who else? post to mailing list
  - budget for flights + hotel + food 
  - work product is proposal to ask funding agency for technical writer
    - scope of work
    - milestones
    - what the document looks like in the end - (kinda like book proposal??)
  - usability issues seem to be more due to docs than code base?
  - sort out how to call people in
- possibly combine with steering council meeting (Ryan, Tom, Eric)
- last week of may/ first week of June


# 14 Jan 2019
## Agenda
[ ] Merging policy clarification 
[ ] how eager should units conversion be for x+dx (ie bar(x, width))? 
    -  Eager makes our lives easier but doesn’t allow combining units that will add but may have different converters (timedelta, datetime). https://github.com/hgrecco/pint/issues/751
    - Exactly what types are allowed as input?  `[], [unit-y objects (i.e. numbers, strings, datetimes)], np.ndarray, np.ma, unit-wrapper(np.ndarray)``,  pandas.Series`
      - documentation issue, we should specify what inputs are allowed for tuples, and what properties they must satisfy. 
[ ] scipy 2019 talk + tutorial
  [ ] @Benjamin R is not planning to go to SciPy this year, @hannah a has volunteered to teach intro-to-matplotlib tutorial
  [ ] should we put in for the interactive one as well?
  [ ] do we want to give a talk?


## Notes

**Merging**

- need to balance review strictness versus getting things merged…
- test suite not perfect and not complete
- cleanups can miss corner cases
- for core devs, make objections explicit
- more aggressive use of ‘request changes’ (red x) on review when you want:
  - changes to the PR
  - indicate that you want to close the PR, with timeline
  -  to have sign off on the PR getting merged
- use comment (no approve/reject) to not sign on as a full reviewer? 
- @Antony L proposal for core devs: 
  - if PR has one positive review & it’s been two weeks, ping devs for review
  - if month of no comment, can be merged
  - each dev can sponsor one review at a time
  - reviewers can say needs more review
  - @Jody K needs 100% code coverage 
- 2nd reviewer can just scan  & merge
## unit 

conversion:

- **containers**: arrays, lists, dictviews
- **datatype**: int, float, string, bool, datetime
- container specification of supported operators:
  - must be singleton/iterable 
    - unit aware asarray w/o data duplication + dictview support
  - something that we can call asarray on + dictviews
  - but will do unit support first (numpy strips up units)
- datatype specification of support on operators:
  - unit registry/unit specs out how datatype works
  - convertible to/from float
  - write timedelta convertor? 
- data wrapper object vs fixing units in numpy
  - FOH: unit work
  - BOH: use arrays for things
  - only duplicate memory if you’re using units? 
- **TODO**:
  - document expected unit containers
  - test united data
## SciPy
- modified Anatomy of Matplotlib by @hannah a 
  - needs assistants
## Students
- maybe @Antony L answering questions
- what sorts of projects? stand alone/isolated/doable
- low stakes, standalone, halfway done
  - discrete legend
  - colorbar refactor
  - VR  backend 
  - fix geopandas viz/other 3rd party matplotlib viz projects? 


# 7 Jan 2019
## Agenda


[ ] Eager or lazy eval of line/patch/marker properties. 
[ ] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13026 : warn all floats in strings
[ ] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13126 minor tick suppression (log scales).  
[ ] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13117#discussion_r245755479  matplotlib.use cleanup 
[ ] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13030 mplot 3d 
## Notes

**Matplotlib.use cleanup?**

- param re-naming discussion 
- param rename decorator? 
- 

**Minor ticks**

- Try to pass major ticks to minor tick locators @Jody K 

**Warn on all-float string arrays** 

- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/13026
- hard to google,
- but we shouldn’t emit warnings for proper usage
- put in offset?  Will show up in final plot…
  - in coord format?  Category
- going in circles about how to support both the naive user which is getting things-that-work-but-are-not-what-they-want vs non-naive users who are get spurious errors for correct usage of the library (sorry for cynical summary).
- more general discussion about helping users with common pitfalls
  - plt.helpful → set logging level to Info for matplotlib.
- maybe we can just use logging.info?
- Settled on using logging
  - @Jody K will change #13026 to use logging
  - someone will open a PR to add a helper function to pyplot (and/or top-level ?) to set up the logging at info level.

**Discussion about #13030**

- deprecation is ok modulo a more documentation
- Want to enable 25% performance speed up so we can 

[**matplotlib/matplotlib#12909**](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/12909)

- @Eric F format ticks method takes only values, applies particular formatter 
  - format ticks for fixed formatter should check for ticks
    - overwrite the format all methods for specific formatters

**Azure Pipelines for testing**

- make 2.6 build using vscode/windows binaries
  - ping @Antony L after New Years
- use  custom images from Qulogic because all the pngs fail because of free type 
  - push test image into their own repo & use submodules for test management
  - talk to free type about testing stability/summer students
  - email freetype and ask about testing stability?

