# January 2020
Call co-ordinates:  Mondays @ 15:00 Eastern US time (UTC -05:00) https://zoom.us/j/384435716
 
Archive: [matplotlib/ProjectManagement](https://github.com/matplotlib/ProjectManagement) 

# Needs Discussion At Some Point
- named roles
- blog PR/merge guidelines
- mission statement/vision
- ~~security vulnerability disclosure protocol~~
- ~~JOSS reviewing~~  
- ~~Job posts on social media + mailing lists~~

# 7 Jan
## Agenda
- Meeting time- currently conflicts with @Jody K , @Eric F teaching schedule
- releases
    - 3.2.0rc3,
    - 3.1.3
    - 2.2.5 (the last one!)
- CZI is starting!


## Notes

**Reschedule meetings**

- move to Mondays to accommodate teaching

**Releases**

- Need to find a volunteer to help with releases
    - email list to ask for ~~tribute~~ volunteer?
    - maybe put this on the plate of RSE?
- should look into adopting some more automatic tooling
    - reaver?
- targeted releases seem good

**CZI!**

- Need to start reviewing applicants for RSE (59 applications)

**JOSS review**

- needs reviewer, many viz (matplotlib) related submissions

￼
**Job posts on social media + mailing lists**

- can core devs (aka Tom) use Matplotlib channels to advertise jobs that are not Matplotlib related?
    - yes
    - yes, but case-by-case don’t want to turn in to a job board
    - no, hold to project related jobs
- consensus: nah

**security vulnerability disclosure protocol**

- have one possible report
    - first in very long time
- need to document how to report

**How to make development fun again**

- getting big stuff in is hard
    - may break API
    - we have become (too) cautious about adding new API
- how to balance velocity vs not making mistakes?
    - how to tune this dial?
- how to label stuff as experimental with expectation of near future breakage
- all work is either trivial or impossible / takes years
- named roles / assigned champions on PRs
- we should talk to Andy about how sklearn is this working on
- would faster release cycles help?
- would help with attracting and keeping new contributors
- maybe slim down the existing API

**summary**


# 7 Jan
## Agenda
- Meeting time- currently conflicts with @Jody K teaching schedule
## Notes

**Automating release process**u

- https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/release_guide.html
- Maybe for RSC since they’ll know the context for it

**15961: Opinionated setting up dev env**

https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/15961

- [matplotlib/matplotlib#15961](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/15961)
- doesn’t need backport becase process doesn’t apply to older versions

**JOSS: Journal of Open Source Software**

- https://github.com/openjournals/joss
- looking for mpl-dev reviewers for mpl related papers

**Policy for advertising jobs on mailing list/discourse/twitter/etc**

- matplotlib jobs are always acceptable
- jobs advertised by core devs:
    - yes, but case by case basis 
    - don’t want to turn in to job board
- jobs advertised by other scipy stack projects 
    - yes because it’s reciprocal

**Security vulnerability disclosure protocol**

- add to docs: security reporting 
    - matplotlib-security@numfocus.org

**development of matplotlib**

- takes too long to merge a PR
- for new features:
    -  use experimental/provisional label
        - how to alert the user to new features? 
        - scikit learn maybe has some machinary for opt in 
    - let stuff break
- large PRs
    - backward incompatable
    - change internal characteristics
- middle ground for deprecate all the things & some silent fails
    - process of maintaining back-compatabiliy is convoluted
- example: make the freetype binding private
- faster release cycle?
- make mpl dev fun again!
    - conserative versus adventurism - is mpl set too conservative?
    - might be hurting gaining & retaining new contributors 
- clearly articulating what actionable steps does the PR need to get in?
    - this is hard because conservative versus adventurous?
    - maybe different guidelines based on what users are trying to do?
        - no data on what parts of the API get hit:
            - very used private versus not so used public
            - can scrape stackoverflow
- PR ends up getting paralyzed
    - what’s the next step,
    - who makes the decisions?
    - what features should be encouraged
    - where is the emphasis in development
- Major library selling points
    - stability
    - good design
    - relability
- on controversional PRs, hard to gauge how much someone really cares
    - having named champions for PRs 
        - named roles are bigger picture  leads
        - two core devs with strong opposing opinions - 
            - champion mediates 
- middle phase
    - enough active people to get opinions on a PR
    - nobody feels empowered to push the green button - champion would push it
- Summary 
    - conservative vs adventorous -  gone too conservative
    - 3rd party packages 
        - good example: mpl-finance taken over by finance expert
        - bad example: axes grid is unmaintained

**Meeting notes: move to hackmd?**

- https://hackmd.io/
- make old notes read only
- export 2019 to repo
- consolidate our notes and start it on the hackmd



