# *December* 2020 
###### tags: `dev call 2020`
Call co-ordinates: Mondays @ 15:00 Eastern US time (UTC = 20:00) https://zoom.us/j/384435716?pwd=WFpxVWxoYXArTDFzN1lWaHNoOE8xZz09

Previous notes: [2020 Meeting Agenda](https://hackmd.io/zljR-pZrQ0O5J_j4NZ-9yw)
Archive: [matplotlib/ProjectManagement](https://github.com/matplotlib/ProjectManagement)

#### [Needs discussion at some point](https://hackmd.io/uzWviu8zSUChq3XhI2FqPg)

# 29 Dec
## Notes
### First time contributors
* incubator + triage gaining ground
* github action not working so removing it
    * convert proposed message to suggestion to reviewers in the docs

### line snapping
* https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19054
* could the snapping algorithm be made robust to not jump to next pixel due to minor numeric difference
    * triage if agg (probably) issue or common to multiple backends
    * linewidth is one pixel is the trigger - snapping is not pixel perfect
    * pin down if coordinate is pixel center or corner

### label grouping
* Group topic-related labels by prefixing `topic: [xyz]` `topic: text\unicode`
    - not a status or a difficulty, 
    - what are the groupings?
        - status - next step, 
        - difficulty - 
        - topic - what part of the library is this in?
            - reddish labels, maybe text and backends? 
        - misc?
        - @story645 will at some point


# 22 Dec
### Old Business
- [x] https://github.com/actions/first-interaction/issues
        - integrate into incubator channel? 
- [x] [#19124](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19124) - triage team docs

### New Business
- [x] steal core/component preface from numpy/pandas for further label organization 
        - module?
- [x] GitHub discussions? @story645 
        - wait & see

### PRs and Issues
- [ ] https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/10008
        - edgecolor versus facecolor (if a marker w/ no polygon)
- [ ] Picker radius woes
        - [#19039](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19039) 
        - Should `set_pickradius()` implicitly call `set_picker(True)`?
        - [#19031](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19031) 
        - does this need a deprecation?        - does this need a deprecation?
- [x] status of "units" overhaul
        - is there one? 
        - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19139
- [x] [#11807](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/11807) - change `pie` return values? - probably the answer is no
- [ ] [#18971](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18971) - status of setuptools_scm adoption? What needs to be done/decided?


These could use a review:
- [ ] [#18829](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18829) - add `RangeSlider` widget
- [ ] Anything from [here](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+review%3Aapproved+draft%3Afalse+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+revision%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+documentation%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+rebase%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+tests%22) needs a second review


## Notes

### Incubator

- interactions gitter...
- soft launch it...
- side bar on incubator maybe having PRs by new contributors?
- Maybe change feed on main page? 
- First PR action to drop a welcome note? @tacaswell 
    - Code of conduct
    - ping us
    - point to incubator channel

### Triage team docs:
- [#19124](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19124) - triage team docs
- Thomas will start onboarding
- doesn't need governance changes... (yet)

### Labels
- add prefix to all labels?

### Github discussions
- overlaps discourse
- repo level...
- questions. user support etc
    - can migrate issues directly to "discussions"
    - can mark as answered
    - upvotes
- Not now, but see how it develops...
- xarray using it.  scikitlearn looking at it. 
- discourse: $10/mo

### Unit overhaul
- NASA grant will be looking at units
- working with cartopy
- Thomas will send around a draft at some point soon 

### RangeSlider
- @h1IxLDvDQ6alkgMzaANm6Q jklymak will work with @ey3AIr8wSl2d1PPfOb9K1w   to merge...

### setuptools_scm merging

 - [#18971](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18971)
 

# 15 Dec
## Agenda

### Old Business

### New Business
- [ ] GitHub discussions? @story645 
- [ ] CZI meeting community follow up
    - https://www.cscce.org/
    - https://zenodo.org/record/3997802#.X9JlmeSQHDs
- [ ] https://github.com/actions/first-interaction/issues

### PRs and Issues

- [ ] [#19031](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19031) - does this need a deprecation?
- [ ] [#18971](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18971) - status of setuptools_scm adoption? What needs to be done/decided?

These could use a review:
- [ ] [#18829](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18829) - add `RangeSlider` widget
- [x] ~~[#19085](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/19085) - fix for new subfigure stuff~~
- [ ] [#18753](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18753) - deprecations need to be removed before 3.4
- [ ] Anything from [here](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+review%3Aapproved+draft%3Afalse+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+revision%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+documentation%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+rebase%22+-label%3A%22status%3A+needs+tests%22) needs a second review

## Notes

### PR list
- need to work w/ @Y-wLuq1aShOQmYPoL-pf1g  on moving private `cbook` to `_api`
- 3.4 work needs to move forward next little while.

### Community building

- Triage rights?
- new contributor onboarding:
    - Safe space for PR discussion
    - make it easier for one-PR contributions
- What is a "community"?
    - code creators
    - documentation creators
    - online help? (stackoverflow? GitHub?)
- Needed:
    - lack maintainers
- Older maintainers
    - could try and consult with for relevant issues.
    - keep track of people who have contributed...
- Actions:
    - Triage team
        - need triage team shepherd
        - triage level on github: open/close, tag, milestone
        - how to add members?
        - Solicit contributions
        - @tacaswell: add documentation
    - Tide pool
        - running "sprint"
        - private gitter room
        - @tacaswell will set up.  @jklymak and @story645 will help moderate





# 8 Dec
## Agenda

### Old business

- [x] Code of conduct merged

### New business

- [ ] NumFOCUS Project update newsletter 
- [ ] update on travis: they are "waiting on direction from management"
    - @tacaswell thinks we should consider them dead to us and push forward with full migration away
     
#### notes from CZI kickoff
May want to push these to next week when @tacaswell will be on the call (2020-12-08 conflicts with the CZI workshop (where these ideas are coming from))
- [ ] create a bug triage team? https://scikit-learn.org/dev/developers/bug_triaging.html
    - invite to org + give triage level rights
    - proposed process to get on the team is 
        1. triage a bug
        2. ask to be added to the team
    - follow sklearn/pandas triage workflow
    - pros:
        - get more hands-on-deck for triage
        - gives a genteler on-boarding path to new contributors
    - cons:
        - ?
    - add triage team head to named roles?
        - maybe wait to see if this actually takes hold/gets critical mass first?
- [ ] add #TidePool room to gitter
    - at CZI meeting one discussion that came up related to community building is to have a semi-closed space for new contributors to get help / pre-review of PRs.  One of the hardest things about getting started with OSS contribution is just getting started (my first PR was changing a 5 to a 7 and it took me ~10hrs to work up the courage to hit "submit" and had flash backs of that when I opened a PR against cpython earlier this year).
    - The idea of this space would have some existing contributors who want to work with new contributors also in that room.  It would be by-invite, but the policy would be "ask in main chat or DM Tom/..."
    - It gives a space that people may feel safer making mistakes in (labeled for new contributors, private so your mistakes are not indexable by google forever) and an audience of people who by being in the room are affirmatively saying they want to help (so asking questions is not a bother!).
    - Maybe document this as "a place to get statred as a Matplotlib contributor" vs "a place to get help with your first PR"?  If we are going to invest peoples cycles into this we want to be working with people who at least think they want to become regular contributors rather than people who intend to do a drive-by PR and then move on. There is nothing wrong with drive-by PRs, but the purpose of this channel would be to develop new long-term contributors rather than getting a single contribution in.
    - the name is meant to be evocative of the role tide pools play in fostering small sea-creatures, have access to the ocean but also a bit protected.
    - pro:
        - maybe increase our onboarding of new regular contributors
        - help build relationship between new contributors and existing contributors
    - cons:
        - need to get a critical mass for it to work
        - yet another communication channel
        - need to "staff" it

#### Issues/PRs
- [ ] [#19080](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/19080) Deprecating a classproperty creating "computer generated" amounts of deprecation warnings when inspecting with `pydoc` (or sphinx.util.inspect or similar) 
    - How onerous is this actually?
    - Fixable by making `MatplotlibDeprecationWarning` subclass `DeprecationWarning`, or adding a similar filter ourselves.
    - Alternatively, just don't bother emitting this warning at all, just document the deprecation in our api changed docs?
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18817

- [ ] [#18900](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/18900)
   - colorbar re-arrangement


## Notes

### CZI community stuff
- looking forward to discussion

### Basemap
- handoff agreed upon: 
    - @tacaswell or other admin-bit to move permissions
    - email sent.

### deprecation warning issue
- maybe just pass through to the JoinStyle class rather than deprecating 
- soft deprecate by removing from docs?





# 1 Dec 
## Agenda 

### Old Business
- [ ] CoC?  
    
### New Business
- [ ] 3.4 timeline, 3.3.4? 
- [ ] Contrib section  (optional discussion)
    - colormaps
    - styles
    - wrapper scripts
    - How-to: make your own library that works on import (@tacaswell?) to set a bunch of settings
        - note that doing everything via matplotlibrc is not terribly reproducible. 

### PRs and Issues


## Notes

### Code of Conduct

- Can merge
- https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/18802
- needs 3/4 board members.  They have been asked.

### Upcoming plans

- possibly no 3.3.4
- just 3.4.
    - any time
    - one thing to finish needs finishing
    - RC in two weeks.  Final second week January
        - make sure announce.  Maybe send an email to a few....
        - github has watch releases only.  Document?

### Contrib section?
- pyviz
    - https://github.com/pyviz/contrib_colormaps
    - colorbars
    - bundle of themes
    - on third party page...
- Level of quality control?
    - bit rot issue
    - official things are hard enough to track
- Third part packages?
    - discoverability
    - packaging?
    - gsoc to implement 
        - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/16592
        - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/18496
    - offshoot projects
        - https://github.com/petermckeeverPerform/themepy
        - https://github.com/dhaitz/matplotlib-style-configurator
        - https://github.com/dhaitz/matplotlib-style-voting
- Add matplotlib frameworks
    - `matplotlib-styles`?
    - github "topic"
- Models:
    - contrib sub-module
        - dependencies are hard...
    - large curated index
    - document how to make different types of "configs"
    - human added semi-automated ecosystem:
        - https://djangopackages.org/
        - maybe GSOC to make mpl version
        - hard to remove things that are old...
        - build in test that style/cmap works
    - templates:
        - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib-cmap-template 
        - Need to link this somewhere in our docs! @jklymak
        - Make something similar for styles?
        - Make something similar for "startup"?
    - pyviz already doing
        - lots of matplotlib extensions...
    - third party page for styles, colors, and colormaps
        - should add this as well (where)
        - @jklymak will @story645 on getting this in place.
