# March 2020
Call co-ordinates:  Mondays @ 15:00 Eastern US time (UTC -05:00) https://zoom.us/j/384435716
 
Archive: [matplotlib/ProjectManagement](https://github.com/matplotlib/ProjectManagement) 

# Needs Discussion At Some Point
- parallel coordinates plot (PCP)
- https://matplotlib.org/devel/MEP/index.html
- GSOC: https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/projects/12
- named roles
- roll-off procedure
- blog PR/merge guidelines
- mission statement/vision
- ownership of notebook backends?
- provisional API
- semantics of when the cycler gets consulted

# March 30
## Agenda

- The path related PRs
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/16773
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/16812
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/16891

# March 23
- #Covid19 social policy: https://twitter.com/matplotlib/status/1239301597127217152
- Framework Classifier: [16592](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/16592)
    - We have one now: `Framework :: Matplotlib`

## Notes

### ssh config settings for multi-hop

```
Host ssh_proxy
     HostName something_on_the_edge
     User tcaswell
     ForwardAgent yes


Host *.myplace.edu
    User tcaswell
    ForwardAgent yes
    ProxyCommand ssh ssh_proxy -W %h:%p 22

```

```
 ssh -D 8124 -C -vvvv -N tcaswell@ssh.bnl.gov
```

### path refactoring
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/15703
     - need a richer set of normalization
     - need the ability to control the path normalization done in side of `MarkerStyle`
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/16773
     - This adds the ability to not normalize the path of a custom marker
     - hopefully in a way that we can extend in the future
     - use a transform instead of a normalization?
         - may have to depend on path, might want set of keys - normalization = 'unit'...
     - `m = MarkerStyle(sp, normalization='unit-area'); plt.plot(..., ..., marker=m)`
     - what @jody is suggesting
         - `m = MarkerStyle(sp, transform=None) # does the current thing`
         - `m = MarkerStyle(sp, transform='none')  # does lookup based on string`
         - `m = MarkerStyle(sp, transform=IdentityTransform())  # uses this transfrom`
         - `m = MarkerStyle(sp, transfrom=transform_factory: Callable [Path, Transform]) # uses the callable as a factory to get the transform`
     - transform is a slightly better name, we already have the name in the code
     - would have to decide if these would be applied to the "special" ones
     - the pattern of string for lookup or callable is common in our code and numpy/scipy
 - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/16812
     - code re-arrangement to support future work on the callables / norms / transforms that will be fed to the code in the previous PR 
     - currently bezier.py imports path.py (because some of the helpers create `Path` objects)
     - all `Path` objects can have the bezier codes in them and bezier.py contains functions that do useful things if your `Path` objects happen to contain bezier code points
     - 


# March 16
## Agenda
- named roles
- [#15065](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/15065)

## Notes

### 3.2.1
- Almost out.  Elliott and Thomas working on it. 

### Governance

- Hannah and Thomas have been working on
- More named roles?
    - responsibilities and names?
    - BDFL -> Lead Developer(s)
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/governance/pull/7
    - Avoid implicit jobs versus explicit
        - empowers them to make final decisions
        - add to resume
    - Role timeline
        - 1-2 years.  
        - Allow easy way to stop being in charge
    - Number of roles?
        - fewer?
        - same person does multiple?
        - low cost to having more roles?
        - small enough to be manageable
    - missing roles
        - secretary
        - treasurer (co-incident with finance sub-committee)

#### Release manager: yes

- per time or per release?
- sign up for X.Y.z series?
    - this is how cpython does
- also in charge of deciding backports
- writing release notes and publication
- make sure website gets rebuilt/published as needed
- **per minor release family gig**

#### API breakage shepherd: 

- future course of API critical
- clean up and bugfix versus new features
    - justify breakage
    - new API if we redesign
    - lead developer role...
    - forward looking and backwards looking very different
- Technical committee? 
- need a layer before lead developer as a first line decision / facilitation.
    - some things can get lost in indecision circles
    - (champions help
- forward looking breaks into two categories
    - self-contained new feautres
    - long-term API change
- instead of forward / reverse split
    - triage / switch yard
    - more careful consideration
- different split
    - big vs small
    - small
        - if you add a feature -> need to add a new kwarg / function to make sure they are named correctly and future-proof
        - may want to remove kwargs (same level)
    - big
        - complete overhaul of API
- conclusion **keep to "Small"**
- conclusion **keep routing and facilitation in one**
- conclusion **keep forward and reverse in one role**

#### Technical (reference) docs lead
- docstring validity checking
- properly-formatted
- correct
- **keep and call "reference something"**
   
#### User (narrative) Documentation lead

- https://mail.python.org/pipermail/numpy-discussion/2020-March/080487.html
- https://labs.quansight.org/blog/2020/03/documentation-as-a-way-to-build-community/
- covers everything in /examples and /tutorials
- covers tutorials in separate repos in org
- **keep and call "narrative something"**

#### Community Manager (communications lead)
- publicity, communications
- Social media: twitter, instagram
- blog (matplotblog)
- recruiting other people to give matplotlib talks/conference organization&involvment
- matplotlib update slide decks
- [ann] mailing list

#### Developer relations
- GSOC/mentoring programs
- 3rd party package interactions & publicity
- discourse - shepherding people to it, making sure questions get answered
- [user]/[dev] mailing list

#### secretary
 - manage weekly meeting notes

#### NF laison
 - monthly project meetings
 - newsletter updates
 - signing up for gsoc
 - coordinate finance communication
 - **leave in lead developer's responsibility**

#### domain specific project leads
 - lead their projects mostly as they see fit
 - have to use the Matplotlib CoC

#### Lead developer (project leader)
 - BDFL must go
 - some concern that "lead developer" is too code-focused
 - Project leader is more grammatically correct
 - suggests leadership, but more collaborative operation

**change to Project Leader**

### [#15065] Drawstyle between
 - Discussion about how to manage complexity
 - @tcaswell convinced that we should add new public API for this (a Line2D sub-class and `hist_draw()` method an proposed by Jody)
 - still up for discussion if we should keep the drawstyle as an implemenattion 

# March 9
## Agenda
 - meeting agenda
 - repo inventory
 - team inventory
 - named roles
 - code coverage
 - [#16702](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/issues/16702): Open Source in CS ED

## Notes
### Agenda
- anyone can add admin, interpersonal, code, etc topics to the agenda
- agenda can be added to in real time
- topics can be added in real time even if not on agenda

### Repo inventory
- Should we archive any more?
- Who is responsible for each of these?
    - lives under mpl vs. umbrella orgs? 
        - flat vs. nested 
    - Do we want to move tutorials/books/etc to an mpl-teaching org? 
Anything with P will be archived in next week or so
```
  matplotlib/matplotlib              4840 10886
  matplotlib/AnatomyOfMatplotlib     493  777
  matplotlib/basemap                 291  555
  matplotlib/mpl-finance             188  267
P matplotlib/sample_data             100  15
  matplotlib/jupyter-matplotlib      77   650
P matplotlib/sampledoc               75   25
  matplotlib/matplotlib.github.com   41   16
  matplotlib/mplfinance              36   96
  matplotlib/cmocean                 33   131
  matplotlib/pytest-mpl              23   101
  matplotlib/viscm                   22   96
  matplotlib/cycler                  21   23
  matplotlib/GettingStarted          19   17
  matplotlib/interactive_tutorial    18   24
  matplotlib/trendvis                14   112
  matplotlib/grid-strategy           13   24
P matplotlib/natgrid                 11   12
  matplotlib/mplcairo                11   40
  matplotlib/matplotblog             9    18
  matplotlib/mpl-probscale           8    19
  matplotlib/governance              7    0
  matplotlib/mpl-altair              6    6
  matplotlib/mpl-docker              6    1
P matplotlib/freetypy                5    3
A matplotlib/mpl_mac_testing         4    0
  matplotlib/devdocs                 4    1
  matplotlib/legacycontour           4    5
A matplotlib/CZI_2019-07_mpl         4    3
P matplotlib/fcpy                    3    0
  matplotlib/mpl-bench               3    0
P matplotlib/ProjectManagement       3    0
P matplotlib/mplsizer                2    0
P matplotlib/matplotlib-jenkins      2    0
  matplotlib/presentations           2    2
```

Created a new github organization 'matplotlib-teaching', made Hannah an owner.

@tacaswell will reach out to original trendvis author to see if they are are still interested in maintaining or if we should look for a new maintainers.

Discovered you can not restirct who can make new repos -> need to invistgate outside contirbutors for triage rights.

### Teams inventory
Proposal:
 - SC (admin on governance)
 - Core (only team with write access to matplotlib/matplotlib)
 - Projects
     - domain
     - project
     - teams
 - communication and teaching
     - blog (admin on blog)
     - teaching (write/admin on tutorials)
     - docs (write access on website)
  
**@tacaswell Will re-org teams this week,also sort which repository belongs to which team**

### CS Classes 
- Keep on w/ Toronto
- our biggest limitation is review capacity
    - on one hand, having a policy makes clear we won't do anything special for course
    - on other hand, don't want to give people ideas
- concerns that these students will be less-sticky than an average new contributor
- also concerns that students won't follow through after the project is over
- Arguments:
    - review capacity + loosened merging rules
    - Mpl is not well scoped or well constrained, which can be hard for school projects
- Expectations for new contributors
    - intrinsinc motivations, 
        - motivated to help GSOC/small bursts/occasional new contributors 
        - you know that there's a funnel down to significant contributors
    - too much work: one time contributions that need to be hand held throughout the process

#### Outcomes
- The issue is the documentation
- Email Anya: Heads up + gating please 
- Tom post at bottom w/ sum up of heads up + pre-filtering for good PRs that are likely to make it in w/o hand holding and that students/profs will push through even after class ends if necessary. Welcoming but not as unpaid as TAs. 

# March 2
## Agenda 
- RSE announce blog
- meeting note babysitter
- GSOC 
    - https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/projects/12
- Small dev grant: who to hire/how to spend the money  
- Consolidating gitter channels 
    - delete/archive gsoc, mpl-altair, community since they're dormant
- named roles
- using assign
- color cycle turn on turn off
## Notes
### RSE Hiring
 - We have hired Elliott (qulogic)!
     - https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/announcement-blog-post-E5Qm4GMpVEwGxt1DmQ2sQ (need to finish)
### meeting note baby sitting
 - need to manually sync to github at end of meeting
     - --- (menu) -> versions->sync -> push
     - ![... menu, versions is first option](https://i.imgur.com/yFJZ0wf.png)

     - need to be added to project management repository
 - need to create a new link / file each month
     - maybe move to bigger time windows?
     - update the year file that links out to each month
     - set sharing/editing permissions & publish:
         - ![sharing menu, everyone read, signed in users write](https://i.imgur.com/zC3wSra.png)

### GSOC
 - @anntzer's rolling image comparison project
     - see Iris for some perceptual image comparison setup https://github.com/SciTools/iris
     - I think https://github.com/SciTools/iris/pull/2206 was the PR that introduced it
     - [their docs on graphics tests](https://scitools.org.uk/iris/docs/latest/developers_guide/graphics_tests.html#developer-graphics-tests)
 - official GSOC page https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/projects/12
 - maybe fonts, but low priority
 - maybe detexify (http://detexify.kirelabs.org/classify.html) for navigating the library
 - 
### Using assign

- ask folks if we can assign issues/PRs to them?
- assign things so they have a champion to move them along
- ask folks to (agressively) self-assign
    - expectation is that if you comment on a PR and don't self assign you have weak opinions.
    - also indicated by request-changes vs just a comment review
- "just comments" -> means "I won't block on this"
    - these things make sense for small PRs, may not work well for big PRs
        - may have a significant comment, but not be willing to take over championing the PR
    - https://doist.com/blog/decision-making-flat-organization/
    - like how pydata ranks proposals
        - -2 (will fight)
        - -1 (against, but meh)
        - 0 (neutral)
        - +1 (pro, but meh)
        - +2 (will fight)
    - this missing the pre-consensus step of "please give more information"
        - start a -2 and be willing to be moved?
    - issue is more getting engagement at all (not reaching consensus once everyone is engaged)
    - how do we get people engaged?
        - ping them directly?
        - dev list?
    - deal with over-engagement
        - assigned champion can moderate
        - but this is the minority of cases
- use draft PRs in lieu of self-assigning on issues in some cases
    - or both
- not going to solve the general problem of over-notified people
- concern is less about people on calls, more about making sure it happens for new contributors.
    - like the idea of a sponsor for the PR
    - losing good possible contributors due to their PRs languishing
- should have some sort of default timeout on PRs
    - do we want a bot?
    - start with 12-18mo timeout
- assigner does not have to do the review / decsion, just responsible for shepherding
    - the assigment can be handed off
- due to force-pushing master last month, all PRs were last touched 23 days ago
    - set up bot to start timing things out at 6 months, gives us 5 months to keep things alive
    - hope the bot gives a warning message?
    - @hannah will research bots
    
### provisional API






